DOCSP-43067: Insert documents (#44)
mongodb/docs-c: source/write/insert.txt

.. _c-write-insert:

================
Insert Documents
================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, write, save, create

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to add
documents to a MongoDB collection by performing **insert operations**.

An insert operation inserts one or more documents into a MongoDB collection.

> You can perform an insert operation by using the following methods:

Reviewer: C doesn't have methods, only functions. Applies to all occurrences on this page.

```suggestion
You can perform an insert operation by using the following methods:
```

         fails. If ``false``, the operation continues to insert the remaining documents
         when one insert fails. You cannot pass this option to the ``mongoc_collection_insert_one()``
         method.
       | Defaults to ``true``.
       | **Type**: ``bool``

   * - ``comment``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
         fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
         {+mdb-server+} manual.
       | **Type**: ``bson_value_t``
       
Example
~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``mongoc_collection_insert_many()`` method to insert
three new documents into a collection. Because the ``bypassDocumentValidation`` field
is set to ``true``, this insert operation bypasses document-level validation:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/insert.c
    :language: c
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-modify
    :end-before: end-modify

Additional Information
----------------------

.. TODO:
  For runnable code examples of inserting documents with the {+driver-short+}, see
  :ref:`php-write`.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 
> To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this
> guide, see the following API documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To learn more about any of the functions discussed in this
guide, see the following API documentation:
```
